Alright, so it's time to write the code
that lets our user select songs from the
albums lists. You'll have noticed, in the
demonstration, that the program keeps
displaying the menus until an invalid
choice is made, now that's a good use for
a while loop. We used a while look at the
end of the previous section, when we
created a simple menu program. We then
extended that, to offer our menu of parts
for a computer. You might want to review
those earlier lectures, before continuing
with this one. You'll notice a lot of
similarity between the earlier menu
program, and the code we're about to
write. Alright, so I'm going to delete the
line that printed the albums. Instead
what we're going to do, is type in while
True, with a capital T there and colon.
Next we'll print some brief
instructions and the titles of the
albums. So I'm going to print, on line 4,
parentheses double quotes Please choose
your album, and in parentheses, Invalid
choice exits, right parenthesis colon.
Then we've got our double quote and
right parenthesis there. Let's put the
titles for the albums now, so it's for
index comma. Then in parentheses I'm
going to type title comma artist comma
year and comma songs, then we've got our
right parentheses there, in enumerate,
then in parentheses, albums, then right
parenthesis and then the colon. Then on the
next line, we're going to print out the
title, artist, year and song, so it's print
parentheses double quotes, left and right
curly braces for each, so basically
duplicating that four times, one, two, three
four- so a total of five curly braces there -
then closing double quote. Then on the
next line, just for formatting reasons,
I'm going to type .format - you can do that
on one line if you prefer. So it's dot
format parentheses, index + 1 comma,
then we want our title comma artist comma
year comma and songs comma. Then we've got
our two right parentheses.
So we're using a for loop to iterate
over the albums. We also want the index
numbers and we've seen, previously, how to
get them by using the enumerate
function. I've split line 6 and 7
into two lines, just to show it all on
video. Again, you can put that on one line
if you prefer. So this code is very
similar to the code we've seen before.
Where it's different, though, is the parentheses
around title, artist, year and songs on
line 5. I introduced nested data
structures by mentioning those
parentheses. That was at the end of the
More Unpacking video, earlier in this
section. Once we've see why they're
necessary, it makes perfect sense, and
when you've seen the error you get when
you forget them, you'll
know that you need to use them.
So let's start with the error. Our while
loop's gonna go round and round forever,
which isn't great, so I'm going to add a
break to prevent that. So I'm going to
put the break down here, on line 9,
indented to the same level as the for loop.
Alright, so let's just run this to confirm
that it does work. Run the code.
Alright, so that's working okay, as you can see.
What happens if I remove those
parentheses? Let's go ahead and do that.
So I'm going to change this up here, to remove
the parentheses, and you can see there's
no errors showing, but if I run this now
we actually get an error:
not enough values to unpack, expected
5, got 2. So we asked Python to
unpack five values but enumerate only
returns two. When you get an error like
that, it's worth checking what
enumerate is returning. So comment out
this loop, which I'll do now, the loop
that we've been using. We'll actually
comment out those three lines.
Instead, what I'm going to do, is
come down here onto line 9 and type
for space index comma value in enumerate and in
parentheses, albums, right parentheses and
: We're going to print, in parentheses,
index comma value. Then I'll leave line
12 as it was. Run the program now,
and we've got four tuples printed out. Their index
positions are printed first,
and then each tuple. If enumerate only returns two items,
then we can only unpack two items in the
for loop. So examine this output
carefully, to check what those two items
represent. The first is an int, the index
position of each item, but the second
item, as you can see there, is a tuple,
and it actually contains four items; the
title, the artist, the year, as well as the
list of songs. If it's a  tuple, we should
also be able to unpack it, and we can,
and once again, I'll take this slow. Let's
start by unpacking value. So I'm gonna close
down the run window. We'll go back to our
for loop here. On line 10, I'm going to
insert title comma artist comma year
comma songs equals value. Instead of
value, we're actually going to print out
those four values. So we'll leave index in,
and we'll print index, title, artist, year and songs. Run the program, and let's check out the output.
You can see there, that line
10 is unpacking the value tuple into
our four variables, and in the output now,
we get those four variables printed out,
each time around the loop. You can see that over
to the right-hand side. Now that's not
surprising - we've done things like that a
few times now. Where it gets interesting,
and why those parentheses were
necessary, is when we combine lines 9
and 10. So compare those two lines -
close down the run window. So compare
lines 9 and 10, to line 5, which is
currently commented out. On line 5,
we want to unpack a single tuple into four
variables, just like we're doing on line 10.
But because that tuple's one of the
pair of values, we need to enclose title,
artist, year end songs in parentheses. So
let's do that. We're now doing all the
unpacking on one line, instead of doing
it in two steps on lines 9 and 10.
I'm gonna un-comment that block now, and
let's rerun the program.
You can see that that works and we get a very similar output now, from both loops. The index numbers are
different - that's because we added one to
the index on line 7 - but we're
getting the same values otherwise. And
we'll do something similar again, when we
come to display the list of songs for an
album. Now that'll be in the video
after the next one, because there's
something else I want to show you -
constants in Python. We'll look at those
in the next video.